# About me

I'm a researcher at Institute of Opto-Electronics, Shanxi University. Previously, I was a postdoctoral researcher supported by SUSTech Presidential Postdoctoral Fellowship. My main research field is experimental AMO, trying to manipulate photons & collective atomic coherence in a single-quantum-level.  

### Education
- 2019-2023, Ph.D. in Physics, Southern University of Science and Technology  
Thesis: [Quantum Interface between Light and Matter in a Cold Atomic Ensemble](https://sustc.primo.exlibrisgroup.com.cn/permalink/86SUSTC_INST/hvjfdm/alma991001826303104181)  
- 2014-2017, M.S. in Optics, Shanxi University  
Thesis: High Stable Optical Fabry-Pérot Cavity and its Application in Cavity Quantum Electrodynamics  
- 2010-2014, B.S. in Physics, Hebei Normal University  

### Employment  
- 2017-2019, Optical Engineer and Co-founder, TestMind Health Tech., Shenzhen  
- 2023-2026, Postdoctoral Researcher, SUSTech  
- 2023-2025, SUSTech Presidential Postdoctoral Fellowship, SUSTech  

### Publications  
- **X. Wang**, X. Liang, L. Dong, Y. Zuo, J. Wang, D. Yang, L. Chen, G. A. Siviloglou, Z. Y. Ou, and J. F. Chen, [Atom-light hybrid interferometer for atomic sensing with quantum memory](https://arxiv.org/abs/2601.18373), arXiv:2601.18373 (2026).  
    *Abstract: Quantum memories feature a reversible conversion of optical fields into long-lived atomic spin waves, and are therefore ideal for operating as sensitive atomic sensors. However, up to now, atom-light interferometers have lacked an efficient approach to exploit their ultimate atomic sensing performance, since an extra optical delay line is required to compensate for the memory time. Here, we report a new protocol that records the photocurrent via heterodyne mixing with a stable local oscillator. The obtained complex quadrature amplitude that carries information imprinted on its phase by an external magnetic field, is successfully recovered from the interference patterns between the light and the atomic spin wave, without the stringent requirement of having them overlap in time. Our results reveal that the sensitivity scales favorably with the lifetime of the quantum memory. Our work may have important applications in building distributed quantum networks through quantum memory-assisted atom-light interferometers.*  
- E. Georg, M. Li, **X. Wang**, J. Luo, and J. F. Chen, [Quantum information of optical magnetometry: Semiclassical Cramer-Rao bound violation and Heisenberg scaling](https://arxiv.org/abs/2601.01820), arXiv:2601.01820 (2026).  
    *Abstract: Optical magnetometers use the rotation of linearly polarized laser light induced by the Faraday effect for high precision magnetic field measurements. Here, we carry out an in-depth quantum information investigation, deploying two distinct models: The first, semiclassical model can violate the quantum Cramer-Rao bound by several orders of magnitude for weak dissipation and large atom numbers, invalidating the semiclassical approach in this parameter regime. The second model, describing the atoms as a collective spin, respects the Cramer-Rao bound for all parameters. Interestingly, the collective model also predicts Heisenberg scaling for the quantum Fisher information. The comparison of both models shows that Heisenberg scaling is a result of measurement-induced quantum correlation in an otherwise non-interacting quantum system. As the Heisenberg scaling appears in a stationary state of a macroscopic quantum system, it can be thus viewed as a new paradigm in quantum sensing. Intriguingly, the comparison of both models with experimental data can constitute a test for the foundations of quantum mechanics in a macroscopic ensemble of atoms.*  
- L. Dong, L. Chen, **X. Wang**, X. Liang, Y. Zuo, and J. F.Chen, [Optical quantum storage of cold atomic ensemble controlled by magnetic field](https://doi.org/10.7498/aps.75.20251399), Acta Physica Sinica, 75(4): 040302 (2026). (in Chinese)  
    *Abstract: Optical quantum memory plays a critical role in fields such as quantum computing, quantum sensing, and quantum communication. Cold atomic systems, due to their excellent quantum coherence, controllability, and exceptional ability to handle weak optical fields, have emerged as one of the key platforms for faithful optical quantum state storage. Among these, cigarette-shaped cold atomic ensembles, which can reach up to 2 cm or more in length, exhibit over 85% storage efficiency due to their optical depth reaching 100 or more. However, further applications are significantly hindered by the limited storage lifetimes caused by inhomogeneous residual magnetic fields along the long atomic cloud. This study analyzes the issue of atomic spin decoherence induced by a non-uniform magnetic field with a linear gradient, and obtains the result that storage lifetime dramatically decreases with the increase of linear gradient. Further, we demonstrate that in our two-dimensional magneto-optical trap system, which has a longitudinal atom-light interaction length of 2.7 cm, a direct current (DC) magnetic field can provide a quantization axis, suppress the effects of inhomogeneous fields, and regulate the cycles of spin dephasing and rephasing. With the appropriate setting for the optical pumping process of magnetic quantum levels, adjusting the pump laser power can effectively control the atomic population distribution, thereby precisely optimizing the light storage efficiency at different time bins, as shown in Fig. (a). According to these findings, we propose a scheme for the storage of time-bin entangled photon pairs, which are prepared at two different time slots of Duan-Lukin-Cirac-Zoller (DLCZ) process. A bias magnetic field on the generation MOT (left panel of Fig. (b)) induces modulation on the storage time as shown in Fig. (a), so that read pulse exerted on $r_{j}$ reads only $w_{j}$ (j = 1, 2). Therefore, the two photonic time bins become distinguishable and orthogonal. The retrieved photon pairs thus have fully controllable time bins for both photons. Compared with other degrees of freedom, the time encrypted photonic entanglement remains robust in long-distance network.*  
- J. Wang, L. Dong, **X. Wang**, Z. Zhou, Y. Zuo, G. A. Siviloglou, and J. F. Chen, [Light-induced fictitious magnetic fields for quantum storage in cold atomic ensembles](https://doi.org/10.1103/PhysRevResearch.6.L042002), Phys. Rev. Research 6, L042002 (2024).  
    *Abstract: In this paper, we have demonstrated that optically generated fictitious magnetic fields can be utilized to extend the lifetime of quantum memories in cold atomic ensembles. All the degrees of freedom of an AC Stark shift, such as polarization, spatial profile, and temporal waveform, can be readily controlled in a precise manner. Temporal fluctuations over several experimental cycles and spatial inhomogeneities along a cold atomic gas have been compensated by an optical beam. The advantage of employing fictitious magnetic fields for quantum storage lies in the speed and spatial precision with which these fields can be synthesized. Our simple and versatile technique can find widespread application in coherent pulse and single-photon storage across various atomic species.*  
- J. Wang, Y. Zuo, **X. Wang**, D. N. Christodoulides, G. A. Siviloglou, and J. F. Chen, [Spatiotemporal single-photon Airy bullets](https://link.aps.org/doi/10.1103/PhysRevLett.132.143601), Phys. Rev. Lett. 132, 143601 (2024). [Editors's Suggestion] [[Featured in Physics](https://link.aps.org/doi/10.1103/Physics.17.53)]  
    *Abstract: Uninhibited control of the complex spatiotemporal quantum wavefunction of a single photon has so far remained elusive even though it can dramatically increase the encoding flexibility and thus the information capacity of a photonic quantum link. By fusing temporal waveform generation in an atomic ensemble and spatial single-photon shaping, we hereby demonstrate for the first time complete spatiotemporal control of a propagation invariant (2+1)D Airy single-photon optical bullet. These correlated photons are not only self-accelerating and impervious to spreading as their classical counterparts, but can be concealed and revealed in the presence of strong classical stray light.*  
- **X. Wang**, J. Wang, Y. Zuo, L. Dong, G. A. Siviloglou, and J. Chen, [Thermometry Utilizing Stored Short-Wavelength Spin Waves in Cold Atomic Ensembles](https://iopscience.iop.org/article/10.1088/1674-1056/accb4f), Chinese Phys. B 32, 074206 (2023).  
    *Abstract: Temperature, as a measure of thermal motion, is a signiﬁcant parameter characterizing a cold atomic ensemble optical quantum memory. In a cold gas, storage lifetime strongly depends on its temperature and is associated with the spin wave decoherence. Here we experimentally demonstrate a new spin wave thermometry method relying on this direct dependence. The short-wavelength spin waves resulting from the counter-propagating conﬁguration of the control and the probe laser beams make this thermometry highly suitable for probing in situ the atomic motion in elongated clouds as the ones used in quantum memories. Our technique is realized with comparable precision for memories that rely on electromagnetically induced transparency as well as far-detuned Raman storage.*  
- **X. Wang**, J. Wang, Z. Ren, R. Wen, C.-L. Zou, G. A. Siviloglou, and J. F. Chen, [Quantum Interference between Photons and Single Quanta of Stored Atomic Coherence](https://link.aps.org/doi/10.1103/PhysRevLett.128.083605), Phys. Rev. Lett. 128, 083605 (2022).  
    *Abstract: Essential for building quantum networks over remote independent nodes, the indistinguishability of photons has been extensively studied by observing the coincidence dip in the Hong-Ou-Mandel interferometer. However, indistinguishability is not limited to the same type of bosons. For the first time, we hereby observe quantum interference between flying photons and a single quantum of stored atomic coherence (magnon) in an atom-light beam splitter interface. We demonstrate that the Hermiticity of this interface determines the type of quantum interference between photons and magnons. Consequently, not only the bunching behavior that characterizes bosons is observed, but counterintuitively, fermionlike antibunching as well. The hybrid nature of the demonstrated magnon-photon quantum interface can be applied to versatile quantum memory platforms, and can lead to fundamentally different photon distributions from those occurring in boson sampling.*  
- **X. Wang**, S. Li, G. Li, and T. Zhang. [High finesse optical Fabry-Pérot cavity system with high thermal stability](https://doi.org/10.3788/AOS201737.0112004).  ACTA OPTICA SINICA, 37(1), 0112004 (2017). (in Chinese)  
    *Abstract: An optical Fabry-Pérot cavity composed of ultra-low expansion glass material and a vacuum temperature control system are designed. The temperature of the Fabry-Pérot cavity can be precisely tuned from 10 ℃ to 40 ℃ when we use the double temperature control system, and the temperature fluctuation of the system is within ±0.004 ℃ in 24 h. The variations in resonant frequency of the F-P cavity and expansion coefficient of the cavity material with temperature are measured when we analyze the F-P cavity resonant frequency and the saturated absorption spectrum of Cs atom. The zero expansion temperature (29.286±0.057 ℃) is determined accurately when we fit the measured data. An optical frequency standard with thermal stability of $3.494×10^{-14}$ is expected to obtained by the proposed temperature control system.*  
- G. Li, S. Li, **X. Wang**, P. Zhang, and T. Zhang. [High efficient generation of over 1 Watt 509 nm laser beam by a ring cavity frequency doubler with periodically poled $KTiOPO_{4}$](https://doi.org/10.1364/AO.56.000055).  Applied Optics, 56(1), 55 (2017).  
    *Abstract: We report high efficient generation of a 509 nm laser beam by a ring cavity frequency doubler with a periodically poled $KTiOPO_{4}$ (PPKTP) crystal. A maximum power of 1.13 W at 509 nm cw light is obtained with mode-matched power of 1.58 W, corresponding to a conversion efficiency of 71.5%. By using the Hänsch–Couillaud locking technique, the doubler is locked with high stability, and power fluctuation smaller than ±0.5% within 1 h is achieved at the maximum output. To the best of our knowledge, this is the highest second-harmonic power produced by a cavity-enhanced PPKTP frequency doubler below 532 nm.*  

### Conferences
- **X. Wang**, Quantum Interface between Light and Cold Atomic Ensembles. 13th Applied Optics and Photonics China. Beijing, China. (2024).  
- **X. Wang**, J. Wang, G. A. Siviloglou, and  J. F. Chen. 非厄密光与原子相干分束器中的量子干涉. 第三届光量子科学与技术学术会议, Taiyuan, Shanxi, China. (2023).  
- **X. Wang**, J. Wang, G. A. Siviloglou, and  J. F. Chen. [Quantum Interface Based on a Non-Hermitian Magnon-Photon Beamsplitter](https://doi.org/10.1364/CLEO_QELS.2022.FW4D.8). CLEO: Conference on Lasers and Electro-Optics. San Jose, California, USA. (2022).  

This page is powered by a [Docsify][1] theme on [GitHub Pages][2].

[1]: https://docsify.js.org
[2]: https://pages.github.com/
